.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Gordon D. Carrie.  All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Licensed under the Open Software License version 3.0
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to user0@tkgeomap.org
.\" 
.\" $Id: allocf.3,v 1.4 2008/11/17 05:03:34 gcarrie Exp $
.\"
.TH allocf 3 "Dynamic multidimensional allocators"
.SH NAME
MALLOC, CALLOC, REALLOC, FREE \- allocators with optional diagnostics
mallocf2, freef2, mallocf3, freef3, mallocf4, freef4 \- dynamic allocators for multidimensional arrays of floats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "allocf.h"\fP
\fBfloat **mallocf2(size_t\fP \fIj\fP, \fBsize_t\fP \fIi\fP);
\fBvoid freef2(float **\fP\fId\fP);
\fBfloat ***mallocf3(size_t\fP \fIk\fP, \fBsize_t\fP \fIj\fP, \fBsize_t\fP \fIi\fP);
\fBvoid freef3(float ***\fP\fId\fP);
\fBfloat ****mallocf4(size_t\fP \fIl\fP, \fBsize_t\fP \fIk\fP, \fBsize_t\fP \fIj\fP, \fBsize_t\fP \fIi\fP);
\fBvoid freef4(float ****\fP\fId\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These allocators create multidimensional arrays of float values.
.PP
\fBmallocf2\fP allocates a two dimensional array of float values.  If the
return value is assigned to \fId\fP, then the highest index of the array
will be \fId\fP[\fIj\fP-1][\fIi\fP-1].
\fId\fP[\fB0\fP] will be a contiguous block of \fIj\fP \fB*\fP \fIi\fP floats.
If something goes wrong, the function generates an error message that can be
retrieved with a call to \fBerr_get\fP, and returns \fBNULL\fP.
\fBfreef2\fP frees all memory associated with \fId\fP,
which should be a return value of \fBmalloc2f\fP.
.PP
\fBmallocf3\fP allocates a three dimensional array of float values.  If the
return value is assigned to \fId\fP, then the highest index of the array
will be \fId\fP[\fIk\fP-1][\fIj\fP-1][\fIi\fP-1].
\fId\fP[\fB0\fP][\fB0\fP] will be a contiguous block of
\fIk\fP \fB*\fP \fIj\fP \fB*\fP \fIi\fP floats.
If something goes wrong, the function generates an error message that can be
retrieved with a call to \fBerr_get\fR, and returns \fBNULL\fR.
\fBfreef3\fP frees all memory associated with \fId\fP,
which should be a return value of \fBmalloc3f\fP.
.PP
\fBmallocf4\fP allocates a four dimensional array of float values.  If the
return value is assigned to \fId\fP, then the highest index of the array
will be \fId\fP[\fIl\fP-1][\fIk\fP-1][\fIj\fP-1][\fIi\fP-1].
terminated.
\fId\fP[\fB0\fP][\fB0\fP][\fB0\fP]  will be a contiguous block of
\fIl\fP \fB*\fP \fIk\fP \fB*\fP \fIj\fP \fB*\fP \fIi\fP floats.
If something goes wrong, the function generates an error message that can be
retrieved with a call to \fBerr_get\fR, and returns \fBNULL\fR.
\fBfreef4\fP frees all memory associated with \fId\fP,
which should be a return value of \fBmalloc4f\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBMALLOC\fP (3), \fBCALLOC\fP (3), \fBREALLOC\fP (3), \fBFREE\fP (3),
\fBerr_msg\fP (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (user0@tkgeomap.org)
