.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\" 
.\" $Revision: 1.3 $ $Date: 2011/11/28 16:11:23 $
.\"
.TH dyn_alloc 3 "Dynamic allocator"
.SH NAME
dyn_alloc \- dynamic allocator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "dyn_alloc.h"\fP
\fBvoid\fP *\fBdyn_alloc\fP(\fBvoid\fP *\fIbase\fP, \fBsize_t\fP *\fIsz_p\fP, \fBsize_t\fP \fIoffset\fP, \fBvoid\fP *\fIsrc\fP,
	\fBsize_t\fP \fIlen\fP, \fBsize_t\fP \fIextra\fP)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdyn_alloc\fP copies \fIlen\fP bytes from \fIsrc\fP to
\fIbase\fP\ +\ \fIoffset\fP, allocating additional memory at \fIbase\fP if
necessary. \fIbase\fP should initially have space for *\fIsz_p\fP bytes.
If \fIoffset\fP\ +\ \fIlen\fP <= *\fIsz_p\fP, the function just copies the
bytes and returns \fIbase\fP. If \fIoffset\fP\ +\ \fIlen\fP > *\fIsz_p\fP, the
function attempts to increase the allocation at \fIbase\fP to
\fIoffset\fP\ +\ \fIlen\fP\ +\ \fIextra\fP bytes with a call to \fBREALLOC\fP.
If successful, it returns a pointer to the contents of \fIbase\fP up to
\fIbase\fP\ +\ \fIoffset\fP, appended with the contents of \fIsrc\fP up to
\fIsrc\fP\ +\ \fIlen\fP.
Note that the return value may not be \fIbase\fP. The new allocation size is
assigned to \fIsz_p\fP. If an attempt to reallocate memory fails, return value
is \fBNULL\fP.
If \fIoffset\fP is too large for pointer arithmetic, the function returns
\fBNULL\fP with \fBerrno\fP set to \fBEOVERFLOW\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBalloc\fP (3), \fBrealloc\fP (3), \fBerrno\fP (2)
.SH AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
