.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\" 
.\" $Revision: 1.12 $ $Date: 2011/11/28 16:11:23 $
.\"
.TH err_msg 3 "Error messages"
.SH NAME
Err_Append, Err_Get \- error message generation and retrieval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "err_msg.h"\fP
\fBvoid Err_Append(const char *\fP\fImsg\fP\fB);\fP
\fBchar *Err_Get(void);\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions create, modify, and retrieve a global error string.

\fBErr_Append\fP appends \fImsg\fP to the global error string.  It does not
terminate messages with newlines.  The caller should normally do this.
It will cause the process to abort if it cannot allocate memory for
the global error message.

\fBErr_Get\fP returns the global error string and then resets it, so that
subsequent calls to \fBErr_Append\fP overwrite the previous contents.  The
value returned by \fBErr_Get\fP belongs to the error message facility and
should not be modified by users. If there is no error message, \fBErr_Get\fP
returns an empty string.

The error message is limited to 64 kilobytes. If it becomes longer than this,
the application prints a warning followed by the current error message, and then
the application exits.
.SH AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
