.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Gordon D. Carrie
.\" All rights reserved
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\" 
.\" $Revision: 1.9 $ $Date: 2009/12/23 18:05:24 $
.\"
.TH str 3 "String manipulation functions"
.SH NAME
Str_Esc, Str_Words \- manipulate strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "str.h"\fP
\fBchar *Str_Esc(char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB);\fP
\fBchar\fP ** \fBStr_Words\fP(\fBchar\fP *\fIln\fP, \fBchar\fP **\fIargv\fP, \fBint\fP *\fIargc\fP);
\fBchar\fP * \fBStr_Append\fP(\fBchar\fP *\fIdest\fP, \fBsize_t\fP *\fIl\fP, \fBsize_t\fP *\fIlx\fP, \fBchar\fP *\fIsrc\fP, \fBsize_t\fP \fIn\fP);
\fBchar\fP * \fBStr_GetLn\fP(\fBFILE\fP *\fIin\fP, \fBchar\fP \fIeol\fP, \fBchar\fP *\fIln\fP, \fBint\fP *\fIl_max\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBStr_Esc\fP replaces escape sequences in \fIs\fP with their corresponding ASCII
characters.
The following escape sequences are recognized.
.ta 8m
.br
\fB\\a\fP	becomes a single <bell> character.
.br
\fB\\b\fP	becomes a single <backspace> character.
.br
\fB\\f\fP	becomes a single <form-feed> character.
.br
\fB\\n\fP	becomes a single <new-line> character.
.br
\fB\\r\fP	becomes a single <carriage return> character.
.br
\fB\\t\fP	becomes a single <tab> character.
.br
\fB\\v\fP	becomes a single <vertical tab> character.
.br
\fB\\'\fP	becomes a single <single quote> character.
.br
\fB\\\\ \fP	becomes a single backslash character.
.br
.in +8m
.ti -8m
\fB\\0\fP\fInum\fP	becomes the character whose ASCII value is \fInum\fP, where \fInum\fP is an integer given as 1, 2, or 3 octal digits.
.in -8m
The (possibly modified) string is returned.

\fBStr_Words\fP splits string \fIln\fP into words.
A word is a contiguous sequence of non-whitespace characters, or a contiguous
sequence of any characters bounded by a pair of matching quotes (\fB"\fP).
Return value is a \fBNULL\fP terminated array of strings pointing to words in
\fIln\fP.  The number of words found is placed at \fIargc\fP.
Word boundaries in \fIln\fP are replaced with \fBnul\fP characters.
If \fIargv\fP is \fBNULL\fP upon entry, the string addresses are returned in a
newly allocated array.  This memory should eventually be freed with a call to
\fBFREE\fP.  If \fIargv\fP is not \fBNULL\fP upon entry, it should point to an
allocation made with \fBMALLOC\fP, \fBCALLOC\fP, or \fBREALLOC\fP with storage for
*\fIargc\fP\ \fB\ +\ 1\fP strings. \fBStr_Words\fP may reallocate \fIargv\fP
with \fBREALLOC\fP and update *\fIargc\fP if it finds more than *\fIargc\fP words.
The (possibly new) allocation is returned.
If something goes wrong, \fBStr_Words\fP returns \fBNULL\fP, sets
*\fIargc\fP\ =\ \fB-1\fP, and frees \fIargv\fP.
Calling \fBErr_Get\fP will retrieve an error message.

\fBStr_Append\fP copies \fIn\fP characters from \fIsrc\fP to \fIdest\ +\ *l\fP and
appends a \fBnul\fP.  At entry, \fIdest\fP should point to storage for *\fIlx\fP
characters.  If space is insufficient, it adjusts the allocation with \fBREALLOC\fP
and updates \fIlx\fP.  Return value is \fIdest\fP or a new allocation.  Upon
return, *\fIl\fP indicates the number of characters at \fIdest\fP, excluding the
terminating \fBnul\fP.  If something goes wrong, \fBStr_Append\fP returns
\fBNULL\fP.  Calling \fBErr_Get\fP will retrieve an error message.

\fBStr_GetLn\fP reads characters from input stream \fIin\fP until it encounters
end of line character \fIeol\fP.  The resulting string is returned, with a
\fBnul\fP terminator instead of the end of line character, and the allocation size,
including the terminating \fBnul\fP, is stored at \fIl_max\fP.
If, upon entry, \fIln\fP is \fBNULL\fP, the string will be returned in a new
allocation.  The memory should eventually be freed with a call to \fBFREE\fP.
If \fIln\fP is not \fBNULL\fP, it is assumed to point to storage for
*\fIl_max\fP\ +\ \fB1\fP characters, allocated with \fBMALLOC\fP, \fBCALLOC\fP,
or \fBREALLOC\fP.  \fBStr_GetLn\fP will store characters at the given memory,
clobbering any previous contents.  If it encounters more than
*\fIl_max\fP\ -\ \fB1\fP characters, it will increase the allocation with
\fBREALLOC\fP and update *\fIl_max\fP.
If something goes wrong, \fBStr_GetLn\fP returns \fBNULL\fP, and leaves an
error message that \fBErr_Get\fP can retrieve.  If a non-\fBNULL\fP \fIln\fP
was given, it may have been modified.
.SH SEE ALSO
alloc (3), err_msg (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
