.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.\" $Revision: $ $Date: $
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt TMEXEC 1
.Os Unix
.Sh NAME
.Nm tmexec
.Nd run a command with a time limit.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm tmexec
.Ar timeout
.Ar command
.Op options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The 
.Nm tmexec
command executes
.Ar command
.Op options
in a child process.
If the child process is still running after
.Ar timeout
seconds,
.Nm tmexec
terminates it with a
.Li SIGKILL
signal.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If the child process exits normally, return value will be that of
the child process.  Otherwise,
.Nm tmexec
returns failure.
.Sh BUGS
Upon timeout,
.Nm tmexec
terminates itself and the child process specified by
.Ar command .
It does not terminate grandchildren.
.Sh AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
